## Parameter estimation for the SFR-M* plane

We separate the star-forming and passive galaxies from one another using an cut in the SFR-M* plane between the two populations. Once these two populations have been defined we can easily calculate the passive fraction as a function of stellar mass with associated bootstrap errors. We model the SFRs of galaxies in the main sequence as a third-order polynomial, as a function of stellar mass with intrinsic gaussian scatter. Similarly the passive galaxies are modelled as a second-order polynomial with a different intrinsic gaussian scatter. The passive fraction is modelled as a hyperbolic function with 3 parameters. in total we have 4 parameters for the main sequence, 3 for the passive galaxies and 3 to estimate the passive fraction.

The parameter estimation for the SFR-M* plane is very important as the molecular and atomic gas mass functions output by this Bayesian framework will depend upon the predicted SFR function predicted by this model which in turn will depend on the Baldry+11 stellar mass function although this is well-determined.

Therefore, a useful check to see how well our model performs is to calculate the observed histogram of SFRs and compare it to a histogram of SFRs predicted by the model, using the same stellar masses from the GAMA sample as an input. We hope that the predicted histogram of SFRs should be very similar to the observed one if the model is correct and the parameter estimation has converged. We could also use the offset from the observed data as a constraint to our Bayesian framework.
